# LITA_Class_Records

### Project Title: Walmart Sales Analysis 

[Project Overview](#project-overview)

[Data Sources](#data-sources)

[Project Objectives](#project-objectives)

[Tools and Methods Used](#tools-dnd-methods-used)

[Data Cleaning and Preparations](#data-cleaning-and-preparations)

[Exploratory Data Analysis](#exploratory-data-analysis)

[Data Analysis](#data-analysis)

[Data Visualization](#data-visualization)

### Project Overview
---
The objective of this project is to gain insight into the Sales activities of the Walmart Store over the past four years (2011- 2014) by analysing the various parameter in the dataset received. The aim is to gain insight to the Revenue, Quantity sold, Geographical Sales & profit by category. The analysis focuses on findng insight on the various performances 
 and key metrics such as top performing category by Sale.  

### Data Sources
---
The primary source of Data used here is Data Sale.csv and this is an open source data that can be freely downloaded from an open source online such as Kaggle or FRED or any other data repository site. The dataset include the following columns:

   1. Geography
   2. Category
   3. Quantity
   4. Profit
   5. Sales
---
### Project Objectives

 This project was designed in tackilng the following issues:
 
   -Total revenue: this calculate the total revenue made by the store in the four years contained in the
    dataset. 
   
   -Revenue by Geography: This analyze the Revenue generated by each Geographical location
   
   -Category by Sales: Analyze the amount made by each category of the business in the 
    years underreview.
  
### Tools and Methods Used
---
- Microsoft Excel [Download Here](https://www.microsoft.com)
    
     -Data Analysis: This was achieved using Microsoft Excel, using Pivot Tables for summaring and
      filtering for easy interpretation. 
     
     -Data Visualisation: Charts wew created in Excel to visually represent the Key insights. 
    
     - GitHub for Portfolio Building




### Exploratory Data Analysis
---
EDA Involved the exploring of the data to answer some questions about the Data such as;

  - What is the total revenue?
  - Which category has the highest revenue?
  - What are the top geographical location?
  
### Data Analysis
---
This is where we include some basic lines of code or queries or even some of the DAX expression used during your analysis;

```SQL
SELECT * FROM TABLE1
WHERE CONDITION =TRUE
```
### Data Visualization
---



